one
uh good morning everybody um super
excited for the next session at sester
enterprise
with one of my favorite ceos and one of
i think the
one of the most interesting cloud
companies koopa um
and i'm i'm glad to have rob back at
sasser in general he was he was kind
enough to come
a couple years ago um when koopa was
still on fire maybe he'd recently ipod i
don't know the timing
but i'm super glad to have rob back now
because
koopa to me in the crazy world we're in
is at a very interesting intersection
uh and there are what we've talked about
is coveted beneficiaries folks that have
benefited from these crazy times and
coop is one of them koopa's growing
quickly and its stock price has done
just fine and it has benefited but at
the same time
koopa is the market leader in managing
spend management and managing
procurement and managing supply chains
and those are areas that are deeply
impacted by the economy deeply impacted
it's
hard not to walk down
downtown with your mass hacked it to see
what's happening
in healthcare all over the place in
financial services and so coop is super
interesting because it's a it's it's
benefiting as a software player
but yet it's it has this insight into
the economy
the the economy of software and the
economy of the real world that
i can't think of another vendor that has
so i'm super excited to to talk with rob
and um down at the bottom on the zoom
hit q
a we will save time for questions we had
a few already come in
um but but click there there i'll remind
you at the end so we can
we can chat um and um i can let rob talk
a little bit about koopa and then we can
chat about it but
um managing almost two trillion of spend
across basically all segments of our
economy right
um which we'll chat about coming up on
500 million in revenue
whatever the exact number is no
forward-looking statements in this
presentation
but what's super interesting to make
sure we talk about even even here
um is that you know koopa
has redefined a category and now has
more revenue in this category than ever
existed so what does that mean for the
cloud how do you change a category
um and again we've been talking about
digital transformation for
20 years uh since probably rob since you
and i started in software but
so much has changed right so um
i want to dig into a bunch of things on
the slide but but but what are you
seeing what's what's the
what's changed the most since march 15th
what's just what's what's unexpected
what's expected what's what are the
number one things that have just
shocked you or have been pulled forward
years that you weren't expecting
well i think as everyone is saying jason
and again thank you for having me on
there has just been a greater energy and
focus
in what was already happening which is
the move to you know digital
right uh i think in our case it's uh
even more interesting because when
you're in times of hyper growth
folks tend to focus a little bit more on
revenue than they do on profitability
and they do on operational efficiency
frankly and our value proposition at
cooper has always been
to help companies become more
operationally efficient to help them
unlock all of their potential so they
could pursue
all of their uh missions and visions and
obviously we're doing that now for
uh you know hundreds and hundreds of
companies around the world so it's an
opportunity to engage in the same
dialogue we've been having now for well
over a decade
but the ears are perking up even more
because they know
that they need to move to a digital
method of driving
uh their operational efficiency
understanding how they're managing their
spending as
as it pertains to everything they need
for their business how they're thinking
about
supplier risk how they're thinking about
their inventory levels their sourcing
activities and so much more
so it's really really exciting for us to
kind of have a greater emphasis into an
area that we know is so important anyhow
and what's it it's it's it's interesting
because it's different for different
vendors since march 15th
was there a trigger point where maybe i
had a project that i was talking to
but i might it might be a 2021 2022
2023 long-term deployment because you
have many enterprise customers was there
a particular
drama issue shelter issue a wedge issue
that got projects pulled forward years
well interestingly enough it was
actually a bit of the opposite in the
first month or so and i mentioned that
on a last earnings call
there was almost a deer and headlights
moment amongst
all of our you know the vast majority i
would say of our prospects around the
world whereas
we don't know what's going to happen so
we actually need your help
you know we need to get ppe equipment we
need to get things in
to sort it out so that oh yeah i'm back
in two three weeks you could do that and
you know it was really rewarding for us
here at cooper you know we we have this
uh you know robust community of of of
existing customers and they came
together
uh on our platform to source you know
personal protective equipment for their
organization so
we were less oriented to our how do we
you know close more more business during
that first month
and more oriented toward how do we help
this community kind of make sure that
they're outgoing concerned
which was uh which was very real in some
industries for sure
yeah we've all been through like four
phases since march
so i hadn't felt i did hear that when
you when you said it before but i didn't
think through it there were
there were vendors where the end of
march into april were were crazy
right even zoom zoom the next day right
the zoom the next day exploded but even
slack it took a while for folks to
figure out we needed to slack more
right and then slack took off so you had
this the the chief procurement officers
cios and others just needed to like
just survive right for that first month
and then what was was has there been
like four waves what are the next couple
of waves that you've seen
across your your partners and customers
well the most interesting thing for us
is that we've taken
dozens of customers live since this hit
right because it's one thing to sell new
prospects and of course we're focused on
that we're doing
just fine there but when you think about
the existing in-flight
projects when suddenly these people are
operating from home and they've never
operated in a virtual environment
and to take large global deployments
live and have them
see see them start running massive
amounts of spent through our system
seeing them control spend and we have a
whole bunch of customers who
didn't have control over their spend
they literally couldn't stop
the company from spending money in
certain places right we're able to help
them do that on their mobile phone on
you know through through our
integrated email capabilities uh within
uh offered via koopa so
that was very very rewarding and
powerful and then of course we
re-emerged and we started looking at
uh how we can uh drive uh you know our
global region expansion and obviously
we're well into that now
you know once uh months after the crisis
started and for like a big
big koopa customer pick one if you want
or don't or just an example but
before march 15th what was a typical
deployment
to be fully into production not not not
an agile comp but
maybe an old school type would it be a
year would it take a year from really
uh you know signing and fully going live
and you just do
how do you comp if it was or whatever it
was how do you compress that into weeks
like
how do you manage the team how do you do
the internal change management and the
external because we're not necessarily
wired that way until march were we
that's right that's right well the
average is roughly six to nine months
for enterprise
customers our mid-market customers you
know four maybe five
weeks so it's not bad but you know what
happened is that
we gained a lot of efficiency ourselves
in working while our customers remotely
you don't have the time
well we'll meet you on thursday we're
going to fly in we're all going to get
into room
well it's monday let's just do it right
now right so you get the systems
integrator on the zoom session you have
the pros
the existing customer on the zoom
session you have my cooper colleague on
the zoom session
we're sharing as you are sharing the
slide the configuration setup and
literally walking through it
so in many ways uh we stand to gain an
advantage
in the efficiency with which we can work
together as long as we can overcome
the kind of change management required
for some folks as you say to be a little
bit more tech savvy and
kind of be willing to work in this way
and we're seeing we're seeing that
happening without a doubt
where do you think it's just look it's
hard to it's hard there's so much change
it's hard to even predict but
in some ways it's great that you can now
deploy customers over zoom right
it's so much more efficient you don't
have to get on an airplane you don't
have to to book the hotel
and all this but it some things are lost
and some things are just
different um has enterprise buying
change do you think
you will swing back into the middle um
can can can we live this dream where we
never have to get on jets again where do
you think we'll be
on the other side of of covet you know
it's hard to predict that jason of
course and probably it's somewhere in
the middle i don't think it'll be an
extreme one
way or the other if i had to predict uh
but what i will tell you that will be
consistent
is that enterprise software is really
about
driving change management driving change
right
and one of the var core values of koopa
is focus on results in other words
identify exactly what it is that you're
attempting to achieve
after you're live a year after your life
and then focus everything in and around
that so limitations like the inability
to travel
or advantages like the ability to get on
a virtual session like this
are just the methods of getting to that
result as long as we keep can
keep people oriented toward that outcome
i think we're in fine shape and that's
how we think about this
this approach that's good now let's i
want to talk about this
because you have some great data and
this i worry about supply chains i i try
not to worry in the world but there's a
lot going on right
it's it's you want to remain positive
but you know i
i look back at some of the first sastra
blog posts in 2012
and i wrote one in 2012 i was walking
downtown university in palo alto and the
last retail store reopened
but it was four years downtown palo alto
it's a fairly gentrified
community there's a lot of money and a
lot of tech money
but it took four years for the last
retail what's now west elm to reopen for
four years right so i'm worried about
this
uh what what are you seeing and this one
is interesting 43 of companies were
worried about the ability to fulfill
orders
right at the beginning of kovid you
could you still can't get a webcam right
you couldn't get a monitor
i mean we were worried there were some
groceries you couldn't get at the
beginning of this right so tell us what
you're what you've learned
being at the at the at the center of
this well first of all retail brick and
mortar retail absolutely is in trouble
and frankly
brick and mortar retail to some extent
has been in trouble well before
this pandemic when we're looking at our
business spend index if your viewers go
to spend index.com they can see the data
on that i mean
we've been looking at retail for three
four quarters and it's been trending
down
we've seen a lot of very interesting
data that i can share with you around
uh the downward trend but when you think
about global supply chains right and
this kind of massive
globalization dynamic we've had in the
world for the last
you know six seven eight years right uh
we're kind of getting into
let's call it globalization 2.0 which
begins to balance
global with local okay and
is is as the slide says you know is
there some fragility in our supply chain
yes
but i would argue that fragility is
really in this
uh in the area of information technology
information
access rather than in physical access
because the goods and services
exist and as soon as there's demand
supply
gets there you look at ppe there was a
massive demand
and within three four weeks there was
massive supply the challenge wasn't
the challenge wasn't there the challenge
was having the information at your
fingertips
to hot swap suppliers get access to the
things you need at the right time make
commitments
contractually to people to know that you
will fulfill your obligations
that's the world in which we play in at
cooper so that's what makes it so
interesting
and we've got customers literally hot
swapping suppliers
moving them into certain areas where
they never even thought they'd be buying
from creating contingency plans for
categories of spend
you need information technology for that
and that's what's exciting about
many of things we're doing and seeing uh
in our customer community
well that's answered yeah i was
following you know after right when we
got into this wonderful pandemic yeah
how cooper was
at the center of getting pp and
identifying this right but i didn't
fully understand why like i didn't
other than other than it's a great thing
to do um
but i didn't i guess i i mean it took a
while for me but the the
the supply got there right within a
relatively short period of time
relatively speaking but it needed it
needed help it needed liquidity it
needed connection
um and i guess amazon works again right
we can still get amazon products to our
home
so i get i guess i guess we don't need
to worry as much the the market will
solve this no matter what global turmoil
there is in the short term as long as
technology can connect us i guess is the
learning yeah absolutely information
technology access to the right data at
the right time to make the right
decisions and collaborate
amongst the supply chain and it's very
exciting to see some of the largest
companies in the world really
reorienting themselves to fully
modernizing their supply chain their
business spend management approach i
mean it couldn't be more exciting for us
obviously
you know i want to hit some of the data
next but on this last point in this
slide this is something
i think about a lot um i mean
did we did you did we know that the
cloud would be this strong after after
march that there would be this boost i
mean it's crazy right i mean cooper's on
fire but you talk about retail look at
shopify i mean shopify is 120
billion dollar company today it's crazy
right and
and the growth vector is insane right
it's the maximum output of this trend
that we've seen but
can't can if if if we're in shelter if
we're in this world through the end of
next year can we have this divergence
can we have a cloud on
can cloud remain on fire when our
account when one out of three people are
essentially unemployed in the country
like how long can we remain divergent do
you have
do you have any insights here well it's
it's a it's a tough question
you know it's interestingly shopify and
amazon i mean these are our customers
you know amazon runs the tens of
billions they manage
through koopa so so uh we're close to
these
these customers but the same value
proposition that existed before this
crisis
exists now it's just being you know seen
in as
a higher priority right the ability to
get greater speed the ability to have
information at your fingertips
the ability to embed jason best
practices into your deployments just
about every cio i talked to tells me
hey we wanna we're gonna go with koopa
but hey promise me you're gonna deploy
this in a way that's gonna be
you know quote unquote vanilla or best
practice so that my team
doesn't sort of start doing a whole
bunch of end rounds they're going to
make us unupgradeable and
and slow us down they want agility they
want
access to community information
hopefully we'll talk about so
i think there are a lot of dynamics that
are really tailwinds for us
in pushing you know cloud faster into
the world at large and obviously these
are big big markets
uh we're all playing and i'm sure many
of your viewers are playing in
so the opportunity is now really to
accelerate our efforts no doubt
it's using the cio's wanting this best
practices right they do they want they
don't want custom they they have this
sort of on-prem
scars right of some hack that's a hack
some bit of corner code written that uh
or weird workflow
i i should have known amazon was a
customer i didn't know it but my mistake
but
boy you must learn a lot from amazon
right uh
amazon must be like the walmart of today
where they're an amazing customer but
they
they school you a bit so what is like
for an amazon what do all your other
customers benefit from like what are
some that that vanillism that that like
what are some things
you've learned from really those those
mega customers like amazon that and how
does that benefit the other
like how have they leveled you up look
the beauty of enterprise software as i
think every one of you viewers knows is
can you
can you have minimal code that supports
the massive amount of use cases as many
use cases
that's the dream right that's the dream
so what we learned from our largest
customers amazon being one and others
is how to support massive complexity in
the simplest way possible
and what we learned from some of our
smaller customers is how to keep things
very intuitive
and user-centric but at the same time
abstract them from some of the
complexity that they may never need to
use
and make everything configurable so
we're constantly learning about scale
and stretching from the
our platform from the larger enterprise
and we're consistently saying
staying very very true to usability and
user centricity
that we're picking up from the smaller
growing companies and that's a beautiful
marriage to have on one platform
yeah so
related to this this is something i
wanted to learn from you
in the enterprise is like
brands and you and i chatted right
before we went live i asked you about
competition i had some fun talking about
ariba
um which you know we're in 2020. koopa
isn't really in ariba 2.0
but maybe in the early days there was
some truth of that i just had a lot of
experience there and
and you said i don't spend some now that
we're big enough now that we're actually
larger than this category used to be i
don't spend as much time thinking about
competition
and i think one reason is you have this
trusted brand right you become
every deal's hard you have to prove
yourself to amazon and shopify but you
are
this brand i've all you know there's
there's
there's suites and there's best of breed
right which we thought about but but do
do folks want even more from trusted
brands now
in 2020 and even more after march 15th
and what does that mean
like versus going more horizontal and
where do we want to invest more in
trusted brands
well it's interesting i'm looking at
this slide and say the enterprise is one
more from vendors
you know in some sense i i would push
back on the term vendors because
i don't consider our company any one of
my colleagues working here anything that
we offer
we're not a vendor when i think of
vendors i think of uh hot dogs at a
baseball park i would have hated it
myself as the ceo you're right but uh
right well so but but it plays the cios
might still use the term
it plays into your question it plays
well look it's a term that's grounded in
a business that used to be a products
business
uh it smells of commoditization and the
reality is that what customers
really want is they want trusted
advisors they want
partners they want people to bring best
in class technology
embedded best practices and they want
folks that have focused on
value creation with them and measurable
success
that's what they want more than ever and
that's what they deserve they've always
deserved they just didn't have the
chance to get that in the first run of
this thing
you know on enterprise software in the
90s and maybe well into uh
you know the new millennium so when you
develop trust and i
and i believe trust is built on
transparency you have to actually
see measurably that we're delivering
value for you
if a third party came in and said okay
there's a relationship between koopa
and one of their customers and here's
what's happening they will be able to
point to measurable value x amount saved
or x user adoption or x spend categories
under management
or x improvement in uh you know
operational efficiency whatever that may
be
and once that's established of course of
course those customers are inclined
to want to tap into subscribing right
to more what we call value as a service
from those uh partners of theirs and we
consider ourselves to be that type of
partner for them
so we've stayed we've benefited from
that and i hope we'll continue to
benefit from that because
we take every one of our customers very
very seriously we want to keep them
forever we want to continue to drive
more and more value for them
yeah it's interesting you know like um i
think at salesforce depending how you
look at it crm is either their fourth or
third largest category now
it's pretty crazy isn't it sure it sure
is well look you know
understanding every component of your
customer how you market to them how you
sell to them how you service them how
you interact
on the web it's super important but i
argue it's just as important to
understand
your entire supply base and how you buy
from them how much you spend with them
how you can
uh collaborate with them uh whether or
not you can mitigate risk
uh when they have risks so we're really
operating on the exact opposite side
of the equation you know we're helping
people companies who spend money
doing do it in the most operationally
efficient and thoughtful way
and now so you're so and related to this
in in
at the bottom point when i listened to
the last analyst call you said
inbound demand is up from your base
right so your customers want more and
more from you from a trusted vendor
um a related question because it's in
like so you're coming up on 500 million
in revenue whenever it exactly i don't
know exactly what are it doesn't really
matter for this but
how far can you see can you see you
obviously can see to a billion
you can see it right behind you uh going
across uh the bridge but can you can you
see 10x can you see the 5 billion now as
crazy as that might have sounded a
couple of years ago
how far can you see in like what do you
see
like what do you see what do customers
want how how's the product going to
change like what do you see what's the
furthest you can see and what do you see
well i appreciate that question jason so
what i see is a 50 billion dollar plus
total addressable market
and what i typically ask are two very
very simple questions of any prospect to
interact with frankly anyone i
interact with whether it's over zoom or
before kind of in the physical world
do you think number one your company is
doing a great job
in managing the spending that it's
involved in for
all the things and services that you
need and you think it's done
really really well i've really rarely
gotten an answer that says oh yeah we're
we're great we know everything about how
we spend money we have control over it
it's compliant okay
and then i ask a second question do you
think you're employing information
technology
in a way that's comprehensive and fully
integrated and user-centric
and deployed quickly that addresses some
of the challenges described and the
answer is always no
so just about every company in the world
can really stand to improve
the way that they do their business
spending and the way they manage their
business spending so i see a huge huge
opportunity and i think this is
in many ways early innings for this
category we're proud to
do our part in trying to lead a focus
into this area and then fulfill that
leadership with
a real brand promise and real measurable
outcomes
for every one of our customers and i
think that is why uh you know we've seen
uh more sort of
inbound interest and more capabilities
and
additional uh features and functions and
modules that we can deliver for our
customer base of course
yeah a couple things this is more a
tactical point and i want to make sure
we get a couple
couple things on the data you have but
this is a bit of a mystery to me i
should know the answer to this but i
don't right
why are payments so hot now um uh
i understand the innovation of stripe of
two lines of code back in the day
right but but why you're seeing this why
why is this all coming together now and
why couldn't payments be as hot five
years ago
um and i put hot in quotes right but
what what's what's so much more valuable
today than it was or what's changed in
technology because i'm missing a bit of
why now well first of all he's saying
the value proposition has been there for
a long time it's been there for a long
time the question is has the value
proposition been fulfilled
that's true yeah but why now why not
well look at what's happening in the
consumer world
the value proposition's been there for a
long time too but it's only now
starting to be fulfilled with square and
out the pay and google pay
now if you look at b2b payments my gosh
first of all it's much bigger
there's a lot more money flowing there
but secondarily the technology the
capabilities there are really
archaic old school technology a lot of
manual a lot of paper
in the united states right nearly half
is paper-based checks i mean are we what
are we kidding ourselves
these systems are rigid you have monthly
batch jobs running out of incumbent
solutions there's no
ability to collaborate with your supply
base around payment rails around dynamic
discounting around
you know virtual credit card payments
transfers yeah
cross border is still super old school
and complex
super so there's just so much we could
do here you can have third parties enter
to do supply chain finance i mean
we're in the very early innings of a
huge market and it requires leadership
and requires incredible tech
you know some of the approaches that
have been taken in the past here have
largely been driven by banks
you know the approach we're taking is
partnering with banks but we're bringing
what we're really good at to the
equation right a
a highly uh scalable robust
transactional platform
uh what we know about usability and how
important user centricity is to that
problem
and we're starting to really get
somewhere you know we have uh as i
mentioned the last earnings call you
know nearly 100 customers uh
uh leveraging uh components of cooper
pay and that's and that's growing it's
really exciting
and just um you know if you look at if
you look at what's happened with shopify
and how big payments have gone there if
you look at the very low end
adjacent to you like build.com didn't
used to have any payments revenue right
and then then it became like one of
their key drivers of growth
right so what do you see a few years out
here in in the enterprise like how core
is this it's obviously core to cooper
but how big it how is this is this flip
around and become one of the
one of the most essential parts of of
what we're doing in terms of managing
this
business of business commerce or are we
are we are we just you know
in five years will this just be massive
you know it's hard to make a detailed
prediction you know the way we like to
do
our business is do it very organically
you know our customers are
asking for these capabilities of us we
didn't come up wake up they say we're
gonna do payments
our customers said we're doing procure
to okay to pay through your platform how
about we do procure to pay
right actually the last mile right yeah
let's do the last mile let's let's and
take
pick off a bunch of use cases that we're
struggling with so
we see a big opportunity here we're
going to co-develop with our customer
community we're going to take the same
approach we've taken with every
other modules a set of modules we've
deployed and we'll see where it goes but
the likelihood of us being able to uh
you know capture
a real meaningful portion of this market
uh based on what everyone's saying i
think
uh that's objectively looking at this
appears to be quite quite high right
yep now this next slide is something i
picked out of your uh i think of your
of your investor report because it's
just interesting to me you know
as a founder what is what what do you
how you
fiscal discipline's super interesting
right i mean you're it
you turn around you probably can't
believe all the unicorns you read about
on tech crunch each day that are raising
400 million
and you don't even want to know what the
bottom line looks like because it
doesn't matter right i mean koopa's a
generation
you know we're generations ago in terms
of thinking about this
um and then you look at weird things
like zoom you know what zoom's burn rate
was the year before it's ipo you know
what it's you know what it's
it was i don't know it wasn't minus one
dollar or plug eric literally said
to the marketing team you can spend
every dollar we have but it's the
funniest thing it's like 414 million in
revenue and like 414 million of losses
and it's
literally a zero like it's the fun you
can get it right you can imagine that
conversation you
here's your allowance um but what is
this thing what's 50 is the new 40 and
um when should software be profitable i
mean we're suppose it's supposed to
shouldn't it be really profitable you
need like you need like
you know the x number of engineers and
everyone can buy it but what is what
does this all mean what are you
what are you saying about this 50s the
new 40. well first off let me say i love
how eric thinks
uh and i think similarly in the sense
that there need to be
guard rails on your business the idea of
spending at all costs
uh and and by the way i we've had some
pressure
uh as a public company certain quarters
but people say well why don't you just
press further further in sales and
marketing and just grow
and then you'd have the other side as
soon as there's a little bit of downturn
hey why don't you accelerate
the pace to profitability look we all
know in software as a service what
really matters is cash flow
cash flow is what matters that's what
fuels the business so we have put
guard rails on the business now for 45
quarters we've had guardrails on the
business
very very careful and thoughtful growth
not overextending ourselves but at the
same time
careful management of sales and
marketing efficiency
and then getting scale into the mod a
model on the bottom line
and that's those are the guardrails
we've had every quarter 45 quarters
and just as eric does it here's what
it's going to be for the next quarter
we got 12 weeks go then we see what
exactly what happens
we distill that we look at all the
metrics buy business unit
buy geography buy product line and then
we unlock
the investment we're gonna have for the
next quarter go and do it over and over
again
and when you do that for as many
quarters that we've done you get into
this situation where you can have
this kind of uh you know rule 50 dynamic
that
my colleague in cfo came up with i think
when he when he became 50 years old
but uh but we are operating at this this
level now and it's it's it's exciting
and is it is and there's a benefit at
50. is 50 too much i mean obviously
you're a proponent of it because you put
it out but where
where how do you set that guard like
what is what is to what is too efficient
versus too inefficient when you when
you're able to be efficient like
well how do you think about it i think
well i think you have to combine
backwards looking metrics so when you
just complete a quarter you look at all
your backwards looking metrics and then
you combine them with
all your leading indicators as an
executive which is what does the
pipeline look like what does our talent
look like
where are we in terms of stage of
pipeline where would we want to make
investments geographically
when are we launching the next product
release and then use your gut to
fine-tune exactly how you're going to
run out at the following quarter so you
have the guard rails but you also
don't hamstrung yourself with an
executive as an executive otherwise you
could automate
the job of the ceo in that area and
that's uh probably not the best way to
do it right
good um let me skip oops we had this
slide maybe we lost one on the different
segments
um i want to talk about some of these
points but um
we might have taken some of this out but
tell me what you're seeing across
different
industries because you do have some data
on this so one of the most interesting
things from some koopa data i've seen is
like
i pull i read the wall street journal
new york times it seems like many banks
are doing very well in this crazy
environment right
but like koopa shows financial services
under a lot of pressure healthcare right
it's hard to get a handle on what's
happening in healthcare some hospitals
are all at the edge of bankruptcy right
on the other hand uh other segments of
healthcare are on fire
right they're literally literally on
fire so um
walk me through some of the data you see
of different segments and maybe some
things that are counter-intuitive that
you're seeing in different parts of the
economy
well i think one of the biggest things
that i think most people now understand
is that given the
the amount of liquidity in the market
it's very hard to gauge the extent to
which financial services firms are doing
well and healthcare et cetera so
you have to kind of have that context in
mind but i really do
you know it's very difficult to answer
that question in two sound bites
i really do urge your audience to go to
spend index.com here's what we've done
we had a slide on it here i think i just
lost it but that yes it is great it is a
great one
let me tell you what we've done there
because we have created an index that is
a real
leading indicator let me tell you why
we're looking at things like
what are the approval cycle times in the
in the current quarter in other words it
did it take longer for people to prove
something
before they even bought it before they
even ordered it before anything happens
we have a leading indicator in terms of
how long by industry
folks are thinking through purchases
that's that's never been seen before in
an aggregate level
with nearly two trillion dollars worth
of data we're looking at rejection
levels what percent of things are going
to reject it you never
see that in the gdp now if there's an
increase in rejection levels of course
there's a likelihood that that industry
has concerns
we're looking at average spend per
employee at companies
and we've put that into an index to give
leading indicators now we launched this
every quarter
and when we backwards tested this to
2016 against the gdp we saw a very real
and meaningful correlation so we think
this could be a real
uh enabler for people to get a sense for
things but if you look at the last one
what we shared at the last earnings call
of course significant retail uh retail
slowdown
uh slowdown across the board frankly but
much more so on pronounced in retail
uh we look at financial services slow
down there as well whether that's seen
or not in stock prices
so i'd urge people to go to spend
index.com we're sharing this openly
we just want to be a good corporate
citizen we're not gaining anything from
sharing this other than maybe a little
bit more awareness about koopa
uh so i'd urge your folks to check it
out yeah everyone go to that because
it's pretty it's it's pretty awesome
uh spendingx.com and i'm on it on my my
ipad uh
i had a screenshot in here but i think
maybe maybe we took it out because it
was backwards looking but
let me just ask you one or two questions
because it is great everyone should
check this out it is great to see this
data
um and and granted there's a little bit
of a it's not up to the minute right it
takes you you've got to get that data so
it's through q1
but one one that that surprised me is
high tech was down how you defined high
tech right
that was down in q1 so what is when the
cloud's on fire
but in spend index high text down what
what are we seeing there what should i
should i see something is there is there
a story behind the story there
well you see what you see which is well
you see in that q1 report
uh when you look at the index purchases
for hardware
and software in the first quarter of the
year yeah
when you look at time to approve when
you look at number of rejections we look
at average spender employee
was uh was down and that's just that's
just a reality of what happened there
right
now whether or not that's measured in
the stock prices of many of these
companies
you know probably not but again you
could argue that uh the current
liquidity environment and the longer
term opportunity
in the digitization area is very very
real look investors are looking for
places where they're going to get yield
they're not going to use u.s treasuries
right so they're looking place they're
going to yield
they're looking for longer-term bets and
there's no question many things
you know my colleagues and i like eric
and others are doing
uh have the opportunity to really stand
the test of time and and uh
develop into very very meaningful
long-term businesses that's what
we're doing here you know i want to chat
about your book next but on the spend
index the q1 just remind me q1 is
calendar q1 right
so q1 is through march this retail one
this plummet's dramatic
right even through q1 so
that trend you can see it in q4 right
retail was already off
deeply in q4 and q1 is down
boy it's just epic right it's almost a
step function it's almost a step
function here right
absolutely step function and look if we
have to make predictions i think they're
pretty uh
pretty obvious right we're gonna see
real backward season retail we're gonna
see a lot of consolidation we're gonna
see brands get
rolled up i mean it's gonna happen it's
already beginning to happen
uh because look folks aren't going to
the mall and they're buying it
you know in in those stores so the ones
the retailers that are quick enough and
nibble enough to
get to consumers directly to figure out
different innovative ways to manage
their supply chain
uh will stand the test of time but uh
it's it's a real struggle in retail
no question about it yeah i would
literally encourage everyone
listening now or watch the thousands
that'll watch this later go to
spendingnext.com it's fascinating
um koopa has a massive it has almost 2
trillion of spen thrown through the
platform so
if nothing else this is a fascinating
data point that you can segment across
financial services healthcare high-tech
manufacturing retail
and it's a it's a slice but you you may
see right now a story
that is worrisome of our economy right
there there is some optimism in this i
mean health actually health and life
sciences outperforms more than i would
expect from the press
because you know our hospitals not
taking ordinary patients and our
dentists
at a lay level i felt like that's under
more pressure than the spend index
suggests
um but outside of that it's it's a it's
a worrisome it's a bunch of more
worrisome trends
um and maybe we're all ballooned by
by the massive liquidity injections the
trillions of dollars in the economy the
planes flying nowhere and the extra
unemployment checks but
the real signals in underneath our
economy are very worrisome on these
charts
yes perhaps i'm looking forward to next
quarter's release we're actually going
to start slicing by category of spend so
what are the categories folks are
spending on where are they increasing
decreasing
as part of blocking enterprises so we'll
have more robust data greater fidelity
of data as we go and uh
hopefully it'll help folks understand
what's going on in the world frankly
right
yeah all right so i'll i'm going to post
this on faster after the next one's out
because it's
it's it's it's super fascinating um okay
so so
a book so you got a book your book book
uh i
is it out i should know i'm gonna buy a
hundred copies um
50 copies or tell us about the book well
this is really
a book that uh is um the next step from
value as a service a book uh
that i did about three years ago and
this is really about
uh breaking the silos of traditional
enterprise software which was always
deployed you know one customer time with
one set of data
and never being able to see anything
across never be able to take
anonymized sanitized aggregated data
we're beginning to take that data
distill insights from it and push that
back into individual customer
environments so that we could be smarter
together as
a customer community so i look at this
book as really you know i don't have a
phd jason i ended in my mba
this is kind of my hypothesis or thesis
or dissertation if you'd like
and it's really a position paper on
where we see enterprise software going
which is the breakdown of those silos
so that we could be smarter together as
enterprises and customers through the
use of information technology
we're on the very bleeding edge of that
with what we're doing here at koopa and
every day we discover more and more
interesting use cases that we
employ for our customers to take
advantage of uh and i'm happy to share
uh anything you like about that
well let's let's interesting it's
communities so
um faster is a community right i mean
it's uh i i never knew much about
community
before this i'm still learning there's a
lot of talk about
communities right and how that you know
customer you know vendors technology
solution i mean people build communities
communities are out there it's
communities around
what is what do you mean by communities
what are you seeing what have you
learned at cooper in general what does
this mean
there's so much but i would give you the
metaphor that i love
which is ways you know i was very proud
that noma endorsed
this book after having uh kind of
thought through
our concept of community intelligence
here that's a space you didn't imagine
community would exist
right on maps but it sure does
exactly and with waze we are truly
smarter together as we travel from
destination from a
to b because we're leveraging in
immediate access to data
and that data requires almost no
friction in some cases zero friction to
collect
aggregate and distill insights that can
be pushed back to the individual driver
so they could find their way through the
exact same concept applies to everything
happening
in business processes best practices for
how many people you should have in your
workflow
jason i mean you know there's companies
out there have 60 people in their
workflow to prove something that's two
hundred dollars
if they knew how far out liar they are
in real time they could fine-tune that
right
they're overpaying they're overpaying
for categories of spend all over the
place they're
exposing themselves to risky suppliers
and not leveraging community insights to
figure out
which suppliers they should be
considering working with i mean the list
goes on and on of all these use cases
where we could truly be smarter together
and proudly as a platform we're enabling
that for our customers
you know so with every release of our
product we're turning on more and more
of these community intelligence
capabilities
that allow them to to be smarter uh
together
okay so good so to the book in large
part
is is it share a lot of learnings about
how to build this community among your
your customer and and partner base well
first of all it frames
what it actually means to have a
community intelligence environment what
are the components of that
it explains why the time is now to
strike particularly if you have
early stage companies that are watching
this why now is the time to really build
up
a platform that can have to stand the
test of time
in leveraging cross company community
insights and then it shows a whole host
of use cases and case studies of what
we've experienced so far
and asks the reader as i did with value
as a service to comment
on what they're seeing uh push back on
some of the
uh hypotheses in the book and uh so that
we can learn together
as a community of readers frankly of the
book as well right
okay it's great well let's everyone
let's i'm gonna i'm gonna do a deep dive
i think this i think community for
business software is super powerful
right it's just it's so important and
it's something we're just learning today
right
just like payments maybe everything in
enterprise sometimes is four to five
years later than consumer
uh maybe maybe payments is there um
and maybe community is there too right
ways ways ways hit this five years ago
but we need
we need to learn this right as leaders
so uh let's all read this and rob if you
want we maybe
maybe in a cup whenever you want we
could do a deep dive on community on the
podcast to 130 000 people because i
think this is a great topic on its own
right just how to building this
community thing because
all right this is a great book let's all
read it and i will share some learnings
on it
uh on saster in a bit um let's make sure
we have uh there's more i want to talk
about let's make sure we have a few
minutes of questions before we
before we end um actually hold on
uh how we doing on there was
let me make sure i grab apologies for
one second
there was one very specific i wanted to
hit and then we'll go into the zoom
um and uh these are specific
to to procurement but i think these are
good ones to hit for rob what are the
three pain points for chief procurement
officers
uh excluding just generating savings and
reducing supply chain what are the top
pain points in 2020 for for cpos
one of the biggest pain points is uh
ensuring that the cfo the ceo
and the cio become their truly
uh connected colleagues in solving many
of the challenges that they've been
thinking about
for a number of decades you know if you
go to a cpo conference of any kind
the conversation is typically how do we
get a seated table how is it that the
whole organization doesn't understand
all the value that we can offer now is
just the time to strike to showcase that
value and that value
is in every possible way of course from
savings which is very obvious
but it's uh extends to supplier risk
mitigation which is
obvious right and all the way through
managing the
entire integrated way with which a
businesses met
a business managers and spend through
information technology
so now is the time to strike look if if
we have a phenomenal cpo and we use our
own platform
but if my cpo you know kind of pinged me
on zoom email or walked into my office
and said look hey i need a budget of x
because i'm going to make sure we're
going to mitigate our supply risk i'm
going to save us this much money i'm
going to give us
a platform that's going to help us uh be
modern and scale into the future
why in the world would i not what would
i not support them
if uh if they were a trusted advisor and
so that's the opportunity here
yeah the next one it's a bit of a layup
or even a commercial but i always love
to hear what a ceo has to say
which is uh what which new koopa product
or feature are you most excited about
well the most exciting one for me is
community intelligence which is a set of
capabilities that we discuss in the book
but they're in the entire fabric of the
product set so
they appear for example in expense
management which we don't talk about as
often but we have
hundreds of customers using coop expense
management we are mitigating fraud and
expense manager we're using
the data set of our aggregated customer
base and
serving up uh individuals that are
highest likely to be doing
fraudulent activities so you can
investigate rather than rigid kind of
you know policies or a free-for-all we
found a way to use technology to be
prescriptive which is the pee and koopa
prescriptive
to uh individual uh controllers and
people responsible for
for spending in the company leveraging
community intelligence and that's just
one example of
of many capabilities leveraging
community intelligence within cooper
this one from nikhil i you probably
don't know the answer although
if it would be wonderful if you did i
know cooper works with many hospitality
companies
and how many quarters do you think bars
and restaurants hotels airports will re
rebound if you knew that i mean you'd be
you could probably be on
cnbc any night everywhere any night
anyway but do you have any insights or
do you have a model
you even have an operating model like
when will these hyper impacted
hospitality businesses recover
well i love the second part of question
jason because of course i'm not a
fortune teller in fact the big
unknown is when somebody these things
will happen but we have a very clear
scenario based model
for e and then we execute accordingly
based on where things uh work out right
so so v
v i get are we past v or is there still
a chance for v
well depends on how far you s you step
back and looking at the
y i think in many ways uh you're right
we are pretty much past
i think that's that's that's a fair uh
assessment in my view
yeah um this one will take you back but
let's just at least do one and have some
fun
right because we did chat about this
before we started what were the biggest
challenges early on when koopa was a
startup procurement folks hadn't quite
heard of you didn't have the brand
and we're replacing or complete
competing with solutions like ariba
well i can give you a very very very
long list of challenges
uh but i think the i think the biggest
is to get
uh folks to give us a chance okay and if
you look at some marshmallows that came
out in 2009 when i was raising money
you know our first raise that that i was
involved in was you know was 15 million
and a half post
right it was uh i think seven million
dollar raise fifteen and a half posts it
was getting folks to try so we did
things like we said look
give us a year annual subscription if we
don't deliver this quantifiable value to
you within 12 months
you could cancel and we'll give you your
money back you know that was a big big
risk to take in 2009 and 2010.
but we delivered for these customers and
they became fans and they became highly
referenceable
and they gave us a chance to go to the
next customer next customer and grow our
ecv
and grow renewal rate so it was very
very hard the early days of course but
uh
that built the foundation and the right
culture i think in this company because
we don't take anything for granted here
did any material number of customers
really ask for their money back
no not even on material none of that for
the money buy i love them i personally
love the money back guarantee hack it's
it's always
one that asks for their money back and
it doesn't matter because if you don't
keep the customer for life it doesn't
matter if you give one year of revenue
back right even though it's stressful it
doesn't matter
but you know jason the beauty of it is
even if let's say they were to ask at
the end of the year if you're
objectively looking the data that said
you're paid us
you know on a midmark customer you paid
a hundred thousand dollars a year well
we've saved you seven hundred thousand
dollars this year
i mean isn't it a little egregious if
you ask for your money back i mean is it
obvious we deliberate value
for you aren't we not a value as a
service partner for you
so frankly we didn't have that but that
doesn't mean it wasn't easy to get those
deployments to confirm
the product to to build new features to
do what it took to get it done i mean no
question
very hard let me ask just one related
early question and then we can wrap up
with a few more current questions but
one of the reasons in the early days
that i got very very from afar i was
interested in koopa is back at
adobe sign echo sign i would meet with a
lot of folks and and mostly on the
contract side
we would deal with with um sell side of
course in the early days but there'd be
a lot of buy side conversations
a lot of them and we would go in and we
built an ariba connector early it was
very hard to do because it wasn't an
open platform but
and i mean this is no disrespect to
anyone at sap but i never heard so many
complaints okay people would just
complain about a reba and people
complain like
i mean obviously you're biased but it
kind of lit up the hair on the back of
my neck because i hadn't heard this when
you're selling
those early days and you don't have the
brand can you
looking back on it uh without bias how
do you leverage those complaints like
how do you turn those
into an asset um do you bash the
competitor do you not does that create a
bigger wedge than if they're happy like
and maybe you didn't see it but i just
heard this
again and again at so many you know
global 2000 companies i would meet it
would be their least favorite vendor
well look you know to be frank we did
some bashing early on
uh and i don't know whether it was right
or wrong but that bastion wasn't
grounded in logic it was grounded in
facts
you know when you're talking to a
customer that's getting four percent of
their spend running through an incumbent
system
you know the bar is not that high to get
them to eight nine ten fifty it's not
that high
right it's not that high but it's a
matter of bringing that to the forefront
i mean bringing
facts to the forefront that everybody
could look at so they can make the
the right choices and uh you know those
are early day things you have to do but
uh
but obviously now you don't think
thankfully we'll we're well beyond that
right
all right maybe the last one or the
penultimate one so we uh maybe this will
be the last one
um in the this but this is probably more
from a founder perspective i'll be
thinking about these in these uncertain
times
some deals go more quickly but some go
most slowly any any tips you've learned
to accelerate
closing of deals in this shelter area
yeah i think it's in the shelter area
but i think it's more broadly but i
noticed now you know
we work with so many different i've had
the chance to work with so many hundreds
of sales professionals in my career
certainly hundreds of koopas as well
over this time what you find is folks
tend to pivot a little bit more towards
being a bit aggressive in other words
look we're great we're the best
you know nine out of ten people use us i
don't love that
and then you have the other extreme
which is they're a little bit overly
passive in other words they chase balls
yeah let me give you 15 references 50
references let me show you a customer
exactly like you
what else can i do for you and our
mindset of koopa is you don't want to be
too aggressive and you don't want to be
too passive you want to be assertive
focus on the facts become a trusted
advisor get
vision lock on what it is you're
attempting to achieve in working with us
and if we agree to that vision lock
perhaps i'm the right player to help you
achieve it if i'm not you can go find
another player to help you achieve it
so we try to be very very assertive in
our dealings
and always jason always grounded in
integrity you know
that's very very important to me i never
wanted an environment where the
salesperson would sell something
and then they'd be afraid to sort of
interact with that prospect that's
horrible
we want a lifetime relationship with
this customer they should be
proud of what they've done and they
should know they have now thousands of
people behind them
they're going to deliver for that
customer so this is this is value as a
service it's a different way of thinking
about the the
traditional products based business uh
into the business that it that is today
i mean disaster right
you know this is this is what it's about
i think yeah no churn and burn deals
right
no they're the worst um okay well
rob this was incredible thanks for
giving us the full 50 minutes
um i love spendindex.com go to it we'll
talk about more about it on faster
spend it next to come you will there'll
be another quarter of data coming out
shortly right i assume
um but you will see things that are
fascinating that are data driven which i
love so so check that out
and also smarter together this community
in b2b
i think is super powerful for the next
five years so hopefully we can continue
the conversation there
but grab your copy um and rob again this
was this was wonderful and thanks for
taking thanks for taking the time out
yeah don't mention it cheers